[WHOOSHING]
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
You're going to
love this program.
If you're into the
paranormal, we've
got something great for you.
Nick Groff is it an acclaimed
paranormal investigator.
He's a television personality.
You've probably seen
him in his shows.
And he's got a new
one coming out soon
called "Nick Groff
Investigates."
Nick, welcome to the program.
>>NICK GROFF: Thank
you for having me.
I really appreciate it.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in the paranormal?
>>GROFF: It's a crazy story.
I feel like life is interesting.
We all go through
these journeys.
And I really believe at
this point of my life,
it kind of chose me.
>>NOORY: A calling, huh?
>>GROFF: Yeah, I feel like that.
I've tried to think
really hard about how
I came to this point
in my life, really
in-depth into the paranormal,
but I'm such a deep thinker.
So at age eight, I
actually fell from a tree,
and I ripped open my arm.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>GROFF: Almost died, and
my mother saved my life.
I remember passing out.
I'm blacking out, and I just
said, "Mom, I love you."
And right then, I collapsed.
>>NOORY: How far was the fall?
>>GROFF: It was a tree.
I don't know.
I was a hyperactive kid,
so I climbed up in it.
>>NOORY: You went
all the way up?
>>GROFF: Yeah, all the way up.
I reached up.
>>NOORY: Oh, Nick.
>>GROFF: Limb broke.
Ripped open my whole arm,
shredded it to the bone.
Half inch--
>>NOORY: Blood everywhere?
>>GROFF: Yeah, and I
don't remember anything.
I went into shock.
So I just remember
getting off the ground.
I'm blacking out and just
said, "Mom, I love you."
Collapse.
What was interesting,
though, is years later,
I talked about this experience
once I really got heavily
into the paranormal.
And I said, I'm thinking back.
All my life, I never asked you.
When I blacked out, I remember
seeing all these faces
around me, looking down at me.
So my mom said, there
was only two of us.
We were calling the ambulance.
And I had a rip off my
shirt, and tie up your arm.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>GROFF: And I
carried you inside.
You know how mothers
can lift cars
when something crazy happens?
>>NOORY: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's right.
The adrenaline kicks in.
>>GROFF: That was my mom,
and she saved my life.
And to this day, I don't
know what I experienced.
I don't know if it was
just my body reacting,
the brain reacting.
I'm not sure.
But I had this
experience where I
remember just faces looking
down and hovering over me.
And I skated on thin
ice, maybe crossing over.
>>NOORY: Maybe.
>>GROFF: Maybe this was just
an experience that kicked off
and it jump-started my
whole entire journey.
And then through the rest of
my life, it got interesting.
At age 13, I started
really getting involved
into UFOs, aliens, space, time.
I was really into it.
And I was that weird kid
at 13 unfolding my map.
You know the old
maps we used to have?
>>NOORY: Yeah, yeah.
>>GROFF: And I'd say, I want
to go to Area 51 some day.
That was me when I was 15.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
>>GROFF: And I had a
little boombox in my room.
Late at night, I
listened to Art Bell.
And I just listened him talk.
And then my sister's
godfather, his father
actually helped build
the hangars at Area 51.
>>NOORY: Oh, jeez.
>>GROFF: They would
tell me stories when I
would go to visit him in Vegas.
And they'd talk to me
right before he would die.
He would talk about the
hangars and this and that.
>>NOORY: Just enthralled
you, didn't they?
>>GROFF: All of it.
The mystery, the
excitement, the adventure,
the journey of just unfolding
what else is out there
beyond just what
we can comprehend
right now in our brains that we
don't have all the answers to.
That's actually what
really just intrigued me.
>>NOORY: Did you ever
think the paranormal would
be your career?
>>GROFF: I didn't at all.
[LAUGHS] I didn't.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
>>GROFF: I always thought it
was an interest in me that
at an early age, but I was
really heavily into film.
I just loved the aspect of film.
I loved movies.
I love stuff like that.
And for a long time,
I just studied it.
But I didn't really
know that I was
going to fall into
just documenting it--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>GROFF: And trying to
discover something new
and really push the boundaries.
>>NOORY: Rattle off, Nick,
for us the shows you've done
or will do.
>>GROFF: Yeah.
So I co-created
"Ghost Adventures,"
was on that for 10 seasons.
Then "Paranormal
Lockdown," I created that.
I was an executive
producer, host for that.
I lived at locations for
the last couple of years
for 72 hours in some of the most
haunted, acclaimed locations.
>>NOORY: Bizarre stuff, yeah.
>>GROFF: Weird places.
And then I created a
new show coming out
called "Nick Groff
Investigates."
So it's a new series coming out.
It's a new perspective
on my journey.
I'm trying to push
things forward.
I want to collectively
gather new information.
It's not about proving or
disproving for me anymore.
When I was young, I
would go into locations--
>>NOORY: You already
have the answer you need.
>>GROFF: I feel like
I need to learn more.
I don't have all the answers.
And I feel like I
want to pull back
the layers to discover
something new, something
beyond what we comprehend now.
Like, what's this weird
anomaly that we captured?
Can we actually define it?
Can we actually say
this is what that is?
But we don't have the right
equipment or the right sense
of mind to actually
say it's X, Y, and Z.
So I'm really trying to push
things forward in that sense.
>>NOORY: What do
you think of ghosts?
>>GROFF: I don't know.
It's weird because years
ago, I would have said,
maybe it was Joe, this
guy who worked here,
functioned here, a
human being that died.
>>NOORY: Who died here.
>>GROFF: Who died here,
and we have that fact.
And then now,
we're communicating
with pieces of equipment.
But a lot of equipment is
pseudoscience, too, right?
It's like what we
define as ghosts.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>GROFF: So I'm
really trying to look
beyond that, different
theories, different ideas,
thinking outside the box.
And that's really what I
want to do pushing forward.
So now, I don't think ghosts
are what I thought it was.
I think we could
actually be dealing
with some slippage of time.
So--
>>NOORY: It could be.
>>GROFF: I investigate two
locations for a decade now,
Bobby Mackey's Music
World in Wilder, Kentucky
and the Washoe Club in
Virginia City, Nevada.
Those two locations,
for some reason--
the Washoe Club has this
weird, energetic feel to--
for me personally.
>>NOORY: You can feel it
the minute you're there?
>>GROFF: I just feel
like I'm drawn to it.
For some weird reason,
throughout my whole life,
I always feel drawn back to it.
I don't know.
Maybe I was a minor
back in some other life.
Who knows?
But every time I go there--
I think it was 2005
when I first went there.
I had a weird experience
where I would hear my name
on the digital recorder.
And it would say--
>>NOORY: Oh.
>>GROFF: --Nick Groff.
And at first, I
thought it was a ghost.
I thought I was
communicating with something
from some other side,
some other dimension.
I didn't fully understand it.
I was also immature.
I didn't understand a
lot of things about life.
I didn't talk to great
people like yourself
who had knowledge.
And through my course
and my journey,
I started to learn
more information.
And I want to evolve myself.
I didn't want to
be redundant, and I
don't want to be redundant,
definitely, in the paranormal,
because that's not what
the paranormal is about.
It's about finding mysteries,
being like a scientist,
discovering a new world
in another universe
or discovering some
other space and time.
I want to be that person who
just breaks it a little bit
or makes us think to the
point where we can communicate
like human beings, and we can
evolve with new information.
Really, I feel like that's
what it's missing right now.
>>NOORY: Right.
Our dear mutual friend,
Joshua P. Warren,
had the chance to talk to
me about spirits and ghosts.
I would call you a
paranormal researcher,
but you cover ghosts,
UFOs, wishing machines.
You do it all.
What's your favorite subject?
>>JOSHUA WARREN: I think my
favorite is still ghosts,
because ghosts was
really what I started
studying when I was young.
And I found that if you stick
with ghosts long enough,
eventually, they
connect to UFOs.
And eventually, UFOs
connect to cryptids,
and that all connects
to psychic phenomena.
And it becomes a really
big, interesting circle
of strange phenomena.
It reminds me of that great
quote by Charles Fort.
"You can measure a circle
beginning anywhere."
So I'm fortunate
now that I've seen
the many different
facets of this field we
call the paranormal.
>>NOORY: Pretty fascinating.
>>GROFF: It is.
>>NOORY: And he's
a good researcher.
>>GROFF: Yeah, and
I believe that now.
I think that a lot of the
things that are occurring now
is all combined.
They're all crossing over.
It's not cryptids
over here in this box,
ghosts in this box, UFOs,
extraterrestrials, space.
I think they're
all crossing over.
And I see the change
happening through my lifetime
that I've started
in the paranormal.
First, I started
with UFOs and aliens.
Then I got into the ghosts,
then the paranormal,
the supernatural, and
just the mystery--
>>NOORY: It just kept evolving.
>>GROFF: It's everything.
Anything weird,
unknown, bizarre--
>>NOORY: You love it.
>>GROFF: I love it.
I'm interested in it, and
I really believe that now.
And going back to what I thought
was a ghost a decade ago, now--
I had an experience
recently at the Washoe Club,
where I heard my voice on
the recorder a decade ago.
Going back to the location
recently for this new series
I'm doing, I walked in and
I saw myself, in the past,
walk into the room,
listened to the recorder,
hearing my voice
on the recorder--
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>GROFF: --And myself in
the present time said, whoa.
Wait a second.
Are we dealing
with time slippage?
And I said, "Nick Groff."
I said my name out loud
in the present time.
And I said, wait a second.
Is that me hearing
myself on the recording
now on the present time?
And that's what's I'm
capturing in the past?
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>GROFF: And Are we dealing with
that at different locations.
now?
Not just the typical
everything is a ghost,
the lights are blinking,
and that's a ghost,
and this is a ghost.
I think there's other
things happening
that we can't actually
comprehend yet
or don't have the
technology yet.
>>NOORY: Do you think we're ever
going to explain this, Nick?
Do you think we'll ever
get to the bottom of this?
>>GROFF: I think life is
an interesting experience,
as a human being, to go through.
And we all have our
separate journeys
that we have to go through life.
And we all have to
separately experience things
and communicate like this.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GROFF: I don't think there's
a right answer for anything,
to be honest with you.
I think when it's
your time to pass on
and all the great things
that you ripple effect
in this universe and leave
behind, hopefully positive,
some's negative.
And I think that's a
real thing, energy.
We produce and we leave energy,
like kinetic energy, when
we move and the mind,
the conscious thoughts
that we create and
build in our brain.
And I feel like I don't think
we'll know the answers until we
pass on.
And I think that's
the next quest.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
>>GROFF: I just don't have
the right answers yet.
I have so much more to learn in
my own life, in my own journey.
And I think I'm just
getting started.
I'm just scratching the surface.
>>NOORY: We've got your trailer
of your new show, "Nick Groff
Investigates," and
it is gangbusters.
[LAUGHS]
[WOMAN VOCALIZING]
>>GROFF: Journey into
the unknown with me
through this ongoing series.
Experience new theories
and documented evidence
at haunted locations
with compelling stories.
Are we missing those puzzle
pieces as investigators?
We're looking beyond,
uncharted territory,
stuff that is lost in the past.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
Some sort of shadow, a mist,
just moved really quickly
up this way.
>>MAN: That's when I was picked
up and thrown against this wall
here.
>>MAN: I've seen some
interesting things.
And as far as I can tell--
and I don't believe in ghosts.
I never have-- it's
probably more so
some kind of
magnetic disturbance
that allows you to
see back in time.
And so when you are seeing
a ghost, what you're really
seeing is just
someone in the past,
and somehow you're on
some kind of weird doorway
where you can see each other.
>>MAN: And I saw it kind of
move toward the door, and--
>>GROFF: And it almost
looks like an energy form,
and I don't know what
it is still to this day.
And we can speculate
all day long.
>>MAN: I'm shocked when
you showed me that.
>>GROFF: Really?
Are we dealing with something
where it's a bend in time?
Or are we dealing
with something where
it's energy from
somebody passing away,
and it's a tragic death where
that's just released here?
Is that the spirit
of that individual?
Or is it just this producing our
thoughts into this environment?
I mean what is
happening exactly here?
>>MAN: Time is not the
way we think it is,
and I'm a big believer
like yourself.
As humans, we believe time
isn't linear, and it's all that.
And we've had a few
conversations outside of this.
I am completely with you.
I think it's something we're
never going to understand,
but it's bending
in a very odd way.
And I know this
sounds deep, but I
think sometimes we're
even communicating
with our past selves.
You are a big
believer in this, too.
You're the one
who said it to me.
I'm completely with you on that.
So I don't know how
much of the haunting
is created by us or the dead.
>>NOORY: It's going to be
a fascinating show, Nick.
Good for you.
>>GROFF: It is
Thank you so much.
Yeah, I just want to push
the paranormal forward.
I want to push the way we think.
I think there's too much
redundancy happening
these days.
And I don't know.
I just want to
create conversations
with each other as human
beings and just evolve.
I think that's what it's
really about, the journey.
>>NOORY: What will be the venue
for "Nick Groff Investigates?"
>>GROFF: So we're
really excited.
We're going to be
announcing really soon.
But VIDI SPACE.
We've produced this.
We're excited, and--
>>NOORY: That's streamed, right?
>>GROFF: Yeah.
It's going to be
streaming platform.
We're excited.
And yeah, we're going to be
making a big announcement
really soon.
>>NOORY: Good.
What drives Nick Groff?
>>GROFF: I think the exciting
journey of life, what's next.
I think every second that I
go to sleep, wake up, look out
into space.
The stars beyond the stars,
what happens when we die.
I love talking to new people
like yourself and other people
that I crossed past with.
I've met so many
people that have
had near-death experiences,
come back to life,
and tell me stories.
And it's like, I'm always
meeting interesting people
at weird parts of my life.
And I think it's--
>>NOORY: They keep
coming, don't they?
>>GROFF: Yeah, and it
just keeps happening.
And I think it's
the information.
I just keep gathering
and learning new things.
And I think that's
really what drives me,
the excitement of saying, wow.
That location made
me think differently
than I did a decade ago.
And I think that's
what drives me.
It's exciting to me.
It's an adventure.
It's this journey that I'm
going into the unknown,
and I don't know what's
going to happen next.
And I think that's the
thrill of it all for me.
>>NOORY: Nick, has everything
you've investigated over
the years for all your shows--
is there that one story that
just still creeps you out?
>>GROFF: [CHUCKLES] Yeah.
There is.
So recently at Bobby
Mackey's Music World--
I lived there for three days.
And we discovered this
ball of energy, I call it.
And I thought for
the longest time
it was this negative entity in
the basement of that location.
It's a weird location.
It has negative and positive.
It flips on a dime.
>>NOORY: And you can feel it?
>>GROFF: You can
definitely feel it.
And what happened was when
I sleeping in the basement,
we discovered this anomaly
that formed for eight minutes
on the camera that we set up.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>GROFF: And I didn't know at
the time, but it was capturing.
And it grows in size,
and it has this plasma--
>>NOORY: Like an orb?
>>GROFF: --on the outside.
Kind of like an orb, yeah.
And I think it holds
memory, in a sense.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>GROFF: And what's interesting
about that location I
discovered on the
new series I'm doing,
"Nick Groff Investigates,"
when I went back there,
I learned that possibly
what we're dealing with
is more of a tulpa thought form.
And over the century,
it has been there longer
than the structure.
But it's gathered
all this energy
and all this information.
And thousands of people
coming to this location
have produced these thoughts of,
there's something negative down
here, something negative.
You say that long
enough, the atmosphere
will change at a location.
And I think it's mirror imaging.
Now, it's grown into this
anomaly and this energy.
And it's mirror imaging people.
When they produce
their thoughts,
that's what it's giving
back to them five-fold.
So I'm a big believer
in what you put out
into the universe is what
you're going to get back.
>>NOORY: Have you ever felt
threatened on an investigation?
>>GROFF: I have.
Yeah.
It's a weird feeling.
I try to stay grounded.
I try to stay humble
in my journey,
and I have been humbled.
And I think sometimes--
I go into a location
out of respect.
Every location holds
something different,
and I'm not going to go in--
>>NOORY: It's like
a cemetery, right?
>>GROFF: Yeah.
I'm not going to go in and be
negative or anything like that.
I'm going to be positive.
But I'm also there to discover
as a guest in that location
people that we're living or
the people that are there now.
And I always look at it as, if
I go into an asylum, or prison,
or any location, or a house,
if there's people right there
in the past that's
occurring for them right now
and I'm here in
the present, what
happens if they can see me?
And they see me as a ghost,
and I see them as a ghost,
but we're both happening
at different times.
So I'm going in
there to communicate,
gather information, document
it, and try to learn and evolve.
>>NOORY: What would you like
to learn about the paranormal
that you haven't learned yet?
>>GROFF: I would like
to discover new answers
from the other side.
I think I just want to learn
something different that I
haven't learned yet, which
what are shadow figures?
I learned recently
at a location I
was at in the United Kingdom,
Shepton Mallet Prison--
and I was seen shadow figures
move throughout the jail cells,
just--
>>NOORY: Well, that
doesn't sound good.
>>GROFF: With my own eyes.
And I couldn't figure
out for the longest time.
I thought it was negative.
But what I learned
is I'm starting
to realize they're at
locations with huge amounts
of dramatic occurrences
that have happened there.
A lot of bloodshed,
a lot of tragedy,
a lot of sadness and emotions.
And I'm learning that
they're more of observers
of a higher intelligent being.
And I don't know
where they come from.
And then we can theorize.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GROFF: We can start
speculating that maybe it's
an extraterrestrial
cloaking, and they're there
observing people at this high
magnetic energy location.
Or maybe it's some entities that
are formed into these shadow
figures.
That's how we view them
in a different spectrum
from our eyes.
Or I don't know.
Maybe there is something else
where they're just observing
and gathering information.
>>NOORY: You talk
a lot about energy
in the Nick Groff trailer.
>>GROFF: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell me about that.
>>GROFF: I look at things
a little bit differently.
I try to think of things
where energy is a real thing.
So we produce energy.
What is energy, positive
and negative energy?
So I'm trying to look
for the energy that's
left behind by people like us.
We go into a location, we're
going to leave energy behind.
It doesn't have to be
somebody that dies there.
It can be somebody that
goes there for a decade.
And then--
>>NOORY: It can be negative
or positive energy, right?
>>GROFF: Absolutely.
And I feel like that energy
is left behind, traces of it.
And that's what we're dealing
with a lot of the time.
So when we walk
through a location
and we feel the goose bumps,
or electricity, or suddenly
I'll feel sad.
And I'm like, whoa.
Why do I feel sad?
Why do I feel angry?
Why do I feel all
these emotions?
That's traces of energy that
I believe is left behind.
We dive into that a lot, the
conscious thought, the energy,
the electricity, and all
those things lingering.
>>NOORY: Have you opened
yourself up to the paranormal?
And by doing so, Nick, do
you find that more paranormal
things are happening to you?
>>GROFF: I feel like
at a very young age,
having that
near-death experience,
maybe it got me a little closer
to that other side, whatever
happens next.
But I also feel
through my journey,
I've always had
that sense of being
more sensitive to energies.
It's like if we're in
a group of friends,
and we're talking, having
a great conversation,
and then somebody
walks up to our group
where we've known
each other for years
and here comes this person.
You just feel that
negative energy.
People sense that.
It's a real thing.
>>NOORY: Get them away, yeah.
>>GROFF: Get them away.
Yeah, let's go somewhere else.
George, let's leave this,
go have a drink somewhere.
>>NOORY: And they follow us.
>>GROFF: Yeah, and
they follow us.
And that's the same
way I go to locations.
It's like, you feel that energy.
And I think I've
learned to adapt to it,
kind of like the old TVs
where you have the antennas,
and you're trying
to get the signal,
and you try to get
that perfect signal.
That's what I feel more of
these days, almost the antenna,
signaling in when I
really open myself
and I let go of the
reality we're in.
And I really try to hone
into the spiritual energy
or the energy of the location.
>>NOORY: Is there an aspect,
Nick, of the paranormal
you won't cover?
>>GROFF: I don't know.
I'll go--
>>NOORY: Anything
you stay away from?
>>GROFF: I'll go and
try almost anything.
I mean, I'm not going to run
into locations and be negative.
I don't get heavily into
the demonic entities.
I don't try to pull back and say
everything's a demon, because I
just don't believe that.
I think that we're dealing with
negative and positive energies.
I think there's
something more sinister.
>>NOORY: Demonic?
>>GROFF: Yeah.
I think however we
want to define it.
I think that's the problem,
because us as human beings,
we want to try to
define everything.
And we want to
vocabulize just words.
And we want to create.
OK, that's a demon.
How do we know it's a demon?
How do I know if
I'm communicating
with my grandmother
who passed away?
How do I know the
feelings I'm getting right
now at a location is--
>>NOORY: You don't.
>>GROFF: You don't, but that's
the mystery, and the love,
and the passion that
I have for all of it.
Let's discover,
let's communicate.
OK, you believe that's
what's happening.
I'm listening to
you, but I'm not
going to tear you down,
because that's your belief.
A lot of people, millions
of people in this world,
have strong beliefs of religion,
strong beliefs of spiritualism,
strong beliefs of whatever.
Their skepticism, it
doesn't really matter.
I love it all.
I want to talk to
everybody and learn, right?
>>NOORY: Well, that's
the way to do it.
>>GROFF: That's life, right?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GROFF: That's
what we have to do.
How are we going to evolve
as human beings, and better
ourselves, and put that
positive energy off?
When I pass away, I
want a ripple effect
in this universe
in a positive way.
>>NOORY: I don't think
you're going to pass away.
>>GROFF: Someday.
>>NOORY: You're going to
come back and haunt us.
>>GROFF: [LAUGHS] Maybe I'll
come back and I'll talk to you.
I'll give you all the
answers to whatever happens.
>>NOORY: From the inside.
>>GROFF: Yes.
>>NOORY: Do you know paranormal
investigator Jack Cary at all?
Have you heard of him?
>>GROFF: I think-- yes.
>>NOORY: He's a good one.
He looks in the unified field
and other paranormal activity.
I had a chance to interview
him on "Beyond Belief."
You call your theory the unified
field of paranormal activity.
What is that?
>>JACK CARY: Yeah.
So one branch is the interaction
with the Type III society
I was describing.
So there is a whole vast
body of paranormal activity
that would be covered
under that including
cattle mutilations, unexplained
animal deaths, missing people,
the alien abduction phenomenon,
UFO sightings in general.
>>NOORY: Aha.
OK.
>>JACK: All of that
kind of activity
is covered under interaction
with the Type III.
The other kind of
paranormal interaction
occurs inter dimensionally.
And it fits into all
of this same teaching,
because what physicists
all around the world
in these hushed conferences
are talking about
is that other dimensions exist.
And if they exist like pages in
a book-- change the frequency,
you could see another
dimension if you
could change the frequency of
your body, your consciousness.
But anyway, they know
that creatures exist
on these other dimensions.
And like Michio Kaku
mentioned, if creatures
exist on those dimensions,
then some of them
will have been
advanced enough to have
found a way into this one.
>>NOORY: You've got to get them
on "Nick Groff Investigates."
>>GROFF: I would love to.
>>NOORY: He'd be a good
team for a segment.
>>GROFF: That's what I love
talking about, stuff like that.
Knowledge is information,
and I'm a big believer
in the dimensions.
I mean, we're living
in altered dimensions,
and these alter-realities.
It's like going down a
road and saying, hey,
should I go left today
or should I go right?
And you make that
decision, and then
it just alters
different realities.
I don't know.
It's really fascinating to me.
>>NOORY: What's so
important, too, and I think,
fascinating, is
that so many of you
great investigators all
share the same views.
>>GROFF: Right.
Yeah, and that's the cool thing.
>>NOORY: Something's out there.
>>GROFF: And I love it.
And I'm a big believer in
we should all come together.
There's not one person
over anybody else.
I think there's some
great minds out there,
some great scientists,
some great, you know,
really high IQs.
So I would love to bring
everybody together and see
what else there is.
>>NOORY: What is death to you?
>>GROFF: I think it's
just the beginning.
I think it's just the beginning.
I think this is a
journey where we
have to learn,
evolve, understand
what our life is to be human.
But I think what's next is the
beginning of something greater.
>>NOORY: And what is that?
>>GROFF: I guess I'll
find out when I get there,
because that's what I've been
searching for my whole life.
>>NOORY: What if there's
no afterlife, Nick?
>>GROFF: Then I hope I made
an impact in this life for--
>>NOORY: Could we be wrong?
>>GROFF: We could.
>>NOORY: And there isn't one?
>>GROFF: Absolutely.
And I've talked
to multiple people
who are my really good
friends that are skeptic.
They believe that this
is the only life you get,
and when you die, that's it.
That's it.
>>NOORY: What about
demons, the devil?
>>GROFF: I mean--
>>NOORY: Does it exist?
>>GROFF: That I don't know.
I mean, that's the thing.
I would be fascinated
to learn more.
I think there's
something negative, just
like human beings.
Human beings are very negative.
And some people are born
into third world countries
where they could define it as
hell on this Earth for them.
Some people would
define this as limbo.
And I think again, it's
going back to life.
I mean, we're all
throwing challenges at us.
And it's how you
conquer those challenges
and keep pushing
forward in life.
And that's just what
I've been doing.
But I mean, I believe there's
something negative out there.
I think humans are
negative, at times.
Humans die, and they leave
that negativity behind.
And I think there's positive
people out there that
do great things,
and are positive,
and they make a huge
impact in this world,
and they leave that
positive behind.
And I think there's something
else negative out there
we just don't fully understand
that can evolve over
time, like at Bobby
Mackey's, in that basement.
Something has evolved.
But I wouldn't say that is
a demon or that's negative.
Some people will
define it as that.
>>NOORY: Some would.
>>GROFF: I would
just claim it as, OK.
There's something that
we feel is negative,
but is it negative in that
dimension or that reality?
Maybe that's just how it is.
>>NOORY: Do you believe in God?
>>GROFF: I believe
there's something greater.
I think there's
something greater.
I do believe there is a god.
>>NOORY: So I mean,
something put this together.
>>GROFF: It has to be.
>>NOORY: This is not a fluke.
I mean, look at the
universes that we're
discovering beyond
our universe now
that are similar to Earth,
and the sun, and space.
Infinity of stars beyond.
It's interesting, because I
want to look at things where
we go into the jungle
and there's an animal.
And we take the animal
over its habitat.
It shouldn't be that way.
What happens if there's
something else out there that's
higher intelligence, a
godlike figure, a god, gods?
Multiple things could
occur where they come down.
They could just--
>>NOORY: Put us in a zoo.
>>GROFF: They could put is in--
>>NOORY: A universal, zoo.
>>GROFF: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>GROFF: Exactly.
They could do all sorts
of experiments on us.
They could put us in a zoo.
They could study us.
They could learn.
Or they could be like, eh,
like an ant pile over there.
And let's go about our business.
We don't need to do anything
with them right now.
I don't know.
It's interesting to me.
>>NOORY: When mentalist
Uri Geller appeared
on Gaia's "Legacy" show
to talk about energy
and what happens when we die.
>>URI GELLER: Albert
Einstein, 1924--
I've spoken about this--
comes up with this amazing
scientific equation,
E equals MC-squared,
where Albert Einstein
proves to the world
scientifically
that everything is made from
energy, even this chair,
is energy.
It's vibrating.
Certain frequency that,
to us, feels solid.
But he also proves that
energy cannot be destroyed.
So if Albert Einstein proves
scientifically that energy
cannot be destroyed, the
question must be asked.
OK, we're energy.
So what happens when we die?
So you can't kill the energy.
What happens to our spirit?
What happens to our soul?
What happens to our mind energy?
And I very simply
believe that when we die,
our energy, our
spirit, our soul,
leaves her body like
the tens of thousands
of stories you have
from millions of people
around the world.
They left their body.
They weren't ready to die, and
they came back to their body.
They went through the tunnel
of light and with the music.
And they were just about
to enter that other side,
the realm, heaven, paradise.
Call it whatever.
And they were drawn
back into their body.
There are millions of stories
of spirits communicating
with their loved ones.
Dogs, cats, animals,
humans, children.
I mean, come on.
It's a fact that people
accept that ghosts do exist.
So scientifically,
the scientific theory
is very simple.
We leave our body, and we
go to a different dimension.
I want to call it
heaven, because I
know that I will meet all my
family there, all my dogs.
I'm a great dog lover, so
I had all my life dogs.
And I know we will meet someday.
So I believe.
I'm a huge believer
in life after death.
>>NOORY: He's onto
something there, Nick.
>>GROFF: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Isn't he?
I mean, very smart individual.
And I love the way
he defines it, too.
That's really interesting to me.
And I think the idea is
we go through our life,
and we're challenged,
and we have hardship.
We have sad times, emotions.
We lose loved ones.
>>NOORY: We're humans.
>>GROFF: We're humans.
We want there to be
something greater.
We want to evolve.
We want to transcend this brain,
the consciousness, and all
the information we gathered
through our journeys
of this reality.
I personally would love to
become an energetic form
and just fly, just fly away into
space to that greater place.
What's next?
I would love that.
>>NOORY: These are some
of the things "Nick Groff
Investigates" will look into?
>>GROFF: Oh yeah.
We pull back the layers on
different ideas, perspectives,
talk to different
people with beliefs.
And we really dive into
a lot of this discussion.
>>NOORY: And what I
like about you, too,
Nick is you don't
put other people down
for their belief system.
>>GROFF: No.
I wouldn't want to be
treated that way, so why
do it to anybody else?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
And it's their views.
It's their opinions.
>>GROFF: Exactly.
>>NOORY: That's what
they're entitled to.
>>GROFF: Look, I have
friends, skeptics, believers,
non-believers,
very hard religion
beliefs across the whole board.
And I'm friends with everybody.
And I think you have to be.
You have to be well-balanced.
Because as an
investigator, as somebody
who just going through
life as a human being,
if I'm going to learn, I
want to learn from everybody.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GROFF: I don't want
to just be closed off
and be like, this is it.
I think sometimes that
science is missing that.
We want to close off, and we
need say it's X, Y, and Z,
and that's it.
No.
Let's think a little bit deeper.
Let's theorize a
little bit, and then
put those theories
that the tests
and see if we can validate that.
And then if we can't,
let's just keep evolving.
Let's keep trying.
Let's keep exploring this
world that's so vast.
>>NOORY: What lesson would you
tell a paranormal investigator
who is relatively
new to the field?
>>GROFF: Be open-minded.
Be open-minded.
Go in where you're logical.
Not everything is paranormal.
There's a lot of
environmental elements
that play tribute, too.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>GROFF: But just learn
the history of locations.
Look at the facts.
Be real, true-- like
you're being a detective.
Look at the truth behind what's
occurring at these locations.
Then go in and have
your own experience,
and then talk about
your experience.
And I think that's
what it's really about.
You and I could both
go into a location.
Both of us might have totally
two different experiences,
but that's a part of life.
We're experiencing stuff
around us all the time.
>>NOORY: Should you
go in skeptical?
>>GROFF: I think it's good
to have a skeptical mind.
But I think it's also--
>>NOORY: It's healthy, isn't it?
>>GROFF: It's
definitely healthy,
but I also feel
like it loses track
on your views of what
you're experiencing, too.
So if you're just
shutting down right away,
then you're not open to
other things happening.
You know what I mean?
So sort of like--
>>NOORY: Yeah, no.
I like a skeptic who goes
in with an open mind--
>>GROFF: Exactly.
>>NOORY: --who wants
to find the truth.
>>GROFF: That's
what I want to do.
>>NOORY: Not a naysayer,
not a, ah, isn't real.
This isn't going to happen.
I want someone who
comes in and says,
I want to know what's going on.
>>GROFF: Yep, yep.
And we're--
>>NOORY: And that's what you do.
>>GROFF: We're dealing
with the unknown.
It's all weird.
It's all weird stuff.
And you got to have fun,
too, while you're doing it.
Not everything is so serious.
And I think that's
the problem, too.
We're looking at things that--
look.
We hunt for ghosts,
we hunt for Bigfoots,
and we hunt for UFOs, alien.
It should be fun, crazy, wild.
Have fun.
It's life.
We're living, we're breathing.
Enjoy life.
But also, it's
good to be serious
when you're dissecting the weird
phenomenons that are happening.
But it's also fun to
laugh at ourselves
and be like, what
was I doing crawling
into that little morgue
slab and laying in there
and trying to document a
ghost trying to talk to me?
It's an interesting
world we live in.
Just enjoy it.
>>NOORY: Is there a paranormal
hot spot you will not approach?
>>GROFF: There was
one long time ago.
I actually said a
decade ago I would never
go back to Bobby Mackey's, but
there was a reason for that.
I was just in a weird,
bad place in my life.
I was depressed.
I was around negative people.
It was just really rubbing
off on me, and you know--
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's not good.
And
>>GROFF: I said on
camera, oh, I'm never
going back there right now.
It's going to do more
harm than good for me.
And then years later,
I went back there.
Because it's not that
I would necessarily
want to face my fears and
be all courageous and tough.
>>NOORY: You had charged.
>>GROFF: I changed.
I matured.
I understand life a
little bit better,
but I was also in a
better place in my life.
I was positive.
I felt like I was
almost shielded,
and I didn't want negative to
disrupt my own world, my life
anymore.
So I kind of went back in
with a different perspective
in a more logical sense, and
really, just went in there
to try to document further.
And I'd been doing
it for a long time.
And I'm really good
friends with Bobby and--
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>GROFF: --the
whole staff there.
So it's been an amazing journey.
>>NOORY: How do people track
"Nick Groff Investigates?"
>>GROFF: It's going
to VIDI SPACE.
So on VIDI SPACE,
people can go there.
We're updating all the time.
I'm releasing a lot of
stuff on my Instagram.
>>NOORY: Do you have a website?
>>GROFF: Not yet.
But just my Instagram, I'm
releasing all my own trailers,
and social media--
>>NOORY: Oh, good for you.
>>GROFF: --and stuff like that.
>>NOORY: And it's just
Nick Groff on Instagram?
>>GROFF: Nick, yep.
Just Nick Groff, underscore.
It's the one with the
little blue check.
There's a lot of--
>>NOORY: G-R-O-F-F?
>>GROFF: That's it.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Super.
Nick, thanks, and
happy hunting on
your paranormal investigations.
>>GROFF: Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: And be safe.
>>GROFF: I'll try my best.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: There are times where
a paranormal investigator can
get too close.
>>GROFF: Yeah.
Oh, I know.
>>NOORY: And get attached.
>>GROFF: Yep.
>>NOORY: And they
can get to 'em.
So you be careful.
>>GROFF: I will.
Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: He's a
great investigator.
We need more people
like Nick Groff.
I'm looking forward to
his new show, "Nick Groff
Investigates."
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MYSTICAL MUSIC]